#summary How to contribute to the Heron MC project

= Introduction =

Thinking of contributing to Heron MC? Great! Below some basics 
about the various ways to contribute. 

== Join us ==

Our main communication channel is the mailing list/forum:
https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/geoext-viewer-devel

Also all comments on issues are forwarded there. At this point
the mailing list is for both users and developers, also since we
think there is a thin line between both: a typical Heron User may
start out as an Heron App developer using just configuration, but
as experience grows may grow into a Heron core-component developer.

== Reporting Issues ==

We'd love to hear suggestions for improvement, new features and/or specific problems or
concerns you have. 

We use the issue list extensively for enhancements, bugs and even patches:
https://code.google.com/p/geoext-viewer/issues/list
Here's a quick list of things to consider:

Please search for your issue before filing it, many bugs and improvements may already have been reported. There's even advanced search:
https://code.google.com/p/geoext-viewer/issues/advsearch

To report a bug:

 * Write specifically what browser (type and version, like Firefox 22), OS, and browser extensions you have installed
 * Write steps to replicate the error: when did it happen? What did you expect to happen? What happened instead?
 * Please keep bug reports professional and straightforward: trust us, we share your dismay at software breaking.
 * If you can, [http://macwright.org/enable-web-developer-extensions enable web developer extensions] and report the Javascript error message.

When in doubt, be over-descriptive of the bug and how you discovered it.

To request a feature:

 * If the feature is available in some other software like ArcXYZ ;-), link to that software and the implementation. We care about prior art.
 * if the feature is available in BoundLess GXP or GeoExplorer, notify us, we may add a configuration wrapper
 
== Translating  ==

Translations are managed currently under

https://code.google.com/p/geoext-viewer/source/browse/#svn%2Ftrunk%2Fheron%2Flib%2Fi18n

You may want to add a new translation or enhance existing ones. You may send a file
to the mailing list or better: 

  * open an issue of type "patch"
  * create a Subversion Patch" and attach to the issue

== Contributing Documentation  ==

Documentation is maintained as a series of [https://code.google.com/p/geoext-viewer/source/browse/#svn%2Ftrunk%2Fdocsrc Sphinx Files]. The API reference and examples documention is generated 
from the code itself.

== Becoming Code Committer  ==

Heron uses Subversion (we may move to Git at some point), so in order
to contribute code the most direct way is to become a committer.
We have a more or less formal process for this. 

 * ask on the mailing list to become a committer
 * preferably provide a link to !JavaScript code you have written
 * when all existing committers agree you're in!
 
You can offcourse always submit Subversion patches (see issue reporting above and translations).

== Javascript  ==

We use the [https://github.com/airbnb/javascript Airbnb style for Javascript] with
only one difference:

     *4 space soft tabs always for Javascript, not 2.

No aligned '=', no aligned arguments, spaces are either indents or the 1
space between expressions. No hard tabs, ever.

Javascript code should pass through [http://www.jshint.com JSHint] with no
warnings.

== HTML  ==

There isn't much HTML in Heron, but what there is is similar to JS: 4 spaces
always, indented by the level of the tree:

{{{
<div>
    <div></div>
</div>
}}}

== CSS  ==

Just like HTML and Javascript, 4 space soft tabs always.

{{{
.radial-menu-tooltip {
   background: rgba(255, 255, 255, 0.8);
}
}}} 

We write vanilla CSS with no preprocessing step. Since Heron targets modern browsers,
feel free to use newer features wisely.

== Tests ==

At this point we don't have a test framework. When making a new feature/enhancement
it is very helpful to also add an example under heron/examples. By adding these lines like:

{{{
/** api: example[featureinfopopup]
 *  FeatureInfoPopup
 *  ----------------
 *  Show WMS GetFeatureInfo in popup Window when clicking the Map.
 */
}}}    

Your example will automatically show up in the documentation/website!

== Licensing ==

Heron is under the [http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html GNU GPL v3 license]. Some of the libraries it uses
are under different but compatible (we think/hope!) licenses. If you're contributing to Heron, you're contributing
GNU GPL v3 code.

== Submitting Changes ==

As a committer, whenever you check-in any change, even to documentation, to the Subversion repo, a new version, called 'latest' will be automagically checked-out and built on the Heron server (via a post-commit hook). Your changes will be publicly visible at the URL: http://lib.heron-mc.org/heron/latest
in particular the examples: http://lib.heron-mc.org/heron/latest/examples.

To be described further (Subversion or patch usage).

== Credits ==

The text above was taken with some freedom from another
inspiring project: [https://github.com/systemed/iD The OpenStreetMap iD Editor].

  